Wildlife-based land-use is common in the semi-arid savannas of southern Africa and, depending on land-use strategy and legal framework, wildlife-proof fences are utilized to accomplish the objectives of land-users. Other than livestock, native herbivores forage on a broad range of plant species and parts in relation to the plants' phenological state and, thus, wildlife-based land-use is thought to be sustainable. However, fencing-in wildlife over longer times carries a severe risk of over-exploitation and consequently land degradation as primal movement strategies of herbivores are being suppressed by impermeable fences. Simultaneously, megaherbivores inhabit the vast landscapes of southern Africa, regularly break fences, and thus enable other animals to cross such barriers, which brings their role as ecosystem engineers to the Anthropocene. Since fence maintenance is limited by e.g., economic or personnel capacities, breaches partly remain for longer times and facilitate movements of other wildlife over longer distances. Nevertheless animals unavoidably interact with fences and their intended movements are affected. Clearly, the severity of fence effects on animal movements depends on their movement type, i.e. residents will be less affected than migrants, and equally the ability of individuals to fulfill intended long distance movements will depend on the permeability of fences. Within such a socio-ecological setting is essential to know the extent of fence effects on economical important wildlife species, so that future land-management practices and policies can promote a sustainable wildlife-based land-use. 

In our study we aim at quantifying the severity of fence effects on three southern African ungulates species in relation to individual movement types. Thereto we will derive a movement type gradient ranging from residents to long distance migrants or nomads from GPS-tracking data. On this gradient we will map and analyze important metrics of fence effects. The latter encompass annual distance moved along fences as proxy for detours the individuals had to take, annual time spend at fences as proxy for the time wasted at fences, and number of fence interactions events as proxy for overall barrier effect. We further will compare the direct effects of an impermeable electrified fence with those of a permeable veterinary cordon fence.              
